# DAT-405-

Retrieving data from websites and displaying them in a user-friendly way this can be done in many ways with tables and graphs like Social Blade (2018), or more visual like the work done by variable.io (2018). Variable.io have some creative visualizations of data that I think are more interesting than just displaying data in table or graph form. My project was inspired by this, I wanted to make something more visual and a creative, a visual representation of a surf report. This would show a live visual of a wave or swell for a specific surf spot, my local surf spot at home and a surf spot near Plymouth. The web application would simplify the need to search for locations and only display the ones I was interested in. The main inspiration for this project was magicseaweed (2018), as originally, they were a small company but have expanded to become one of the most used surf report sites in Europe. I wanted to make the visual representation that looked like swell, with the height of the waves being affected by the actual swell height of the beaches. This project was a lot harder to code than I originally thought and along the way I came into quite a few issues, the first being denied access to the data. The error was: No 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' header is present on the requested resource. Origin is therefore not allowed access. I emailed magicseaweed to find out what I needed to do, and they told me the website needed a call back function in order to load jasonp data. This was fixed by splitting up the URL and adding in a get data function and making the jsonp data = data. Then there was an issue with the drop-down menu. When selecting the different spots, it was not loading the data and displaying it on screen. Because I only had two sets of data that needed to be displayed, the issue was solved by splitting the spot selection into two ‘If’ statements that loaded separately. Though if I wanted to add more spots in later it would make that harder as I would have to manually add them in. In future I would like to fix this so that it is not split up and new spots could be added in under a class for example. After that it was making sure that the data didn’t constantly keep re-loading itself over and over by adding in a menu check which updated after the code ran. I would like to the overall interface to be more aesthetically pleasing with a more up to date layout, but under the timeframe it is not possible.
